1. Executive Summary
A publicly available corpus of approximately 3 million PDFs contains redacted information hidden behind black rectangular bars. Analysis reveals that these redactions are fundamentally flawed across multiple dimensions. Some documents contain redactions implemented as toggleable PDF layers — reading the hidden text requires flipping a switch. Others retain the full text layer beneath visual black bars — the text can be copy-pasted out. For the remainder, where the text has been rasterised before the bar was applied, the anti-aliasing artifacts of the original text rendering survive at the bar margins as sub-pixel gradient data. Combined with font metric analysis, width constraints, and statistical aggregation across hundreds of identical redactions, these artifacts can be decoded to recover the hidden content with quantifiable confidence.
The project proposes a distributed citizen science platform — a mobile app / PWA that allows volunteers to process individual PDFs on their phones. Each file is fetched, analysed in seconds, and a tiny structured JSON result is uploaded to a central database. The gamified interface lets users explore redactions with a contrast slider, revealing the hidden letter shapes that survive in the margins.

The approach has been independently validated by hand by domain experts who, working manually on a small number of documents, correctly identified redacted words with 99% accuracy. This project aims to automate and scale that methodology across millions of files.

9. Implementation — Full Code
Complete working Python implementation. Dependencies: pip install pymupdf opencv-python numpy pillow matplotlib

9.1 Data Structures
9.2 Core Parser Loop
9.3 Bar Detection
9.4 Edge Data Extraction
9.5 Text Layer Analysis
9.6 Font Calibration Engine
9.7 Width Filtering
9.8 Edge Matching & Scoring
9.9 Visualiser & Interactive Explorer
9.10 Cluster Analysis
9.11 Critical Implementation Notes
COORDINATE SYSTEM WARNING — Biggest source of bugs:
PDF text layer: coordinates in POINTS (72/inch), origin at BOTTOM-LEFT.
Extracted image: coordinates in PIXELS (at image DPI), origin at TOP-LEFT.
Conversion: pixels = points × (DPI / 72). Y-axis is flipped: y_pixels = page_height_pixels - y_points × (DPI / 72).
Test this early with a known document.
JPEG ARTIFACT PRESERVATION: When extracting images, doc.extract_image(xref) returns raw JPEG bytes. These ARE the original JPEG — the DCT coefficients are forensic evidence. Save them separately. Do NOT decode and re-encode.
FIRST RUN CHECKLIST:
□ Get 10 sample PDFs
□ Run: python parser.py sample.pdf --viz
□ Is bar_max_value > 0? (signal exists)
□ Can you see letter shapes in enhanced edge views?
□ Does the text layer contain hidden text?
□ Run: python parser.py sample.pdf --explore
□ Drag the contrast slider
□ Screenshot the moment you see letter shapes
□ THAT SCREENSHOT IS YOUR PROOF OF CONCEPT
10. Processing Pipeline & Triage
The Virtuous Cycle
Over-redaction analysis → Confirm search string → Solve cluster
    → Ground truth CALIBRATES pixel matching → Higher accuracy
    → Apply to unsolved clusters → More solutions → REPEAT
Each solved redaction makes the system better at solving the next one. The first few solves are hardest. After that, it cascades.

Priority Order (Most Impact per Effort)
Priority	Technique	Effort	Payoff
1	OCG layer toggle + text layer extraction	Seconds per file	100% confidence, free answers
2	Over-redaction / search string attack	Text analysis only	Solves entire clusters instantly
3	Width filtering	Simple arithmetic	Eliminates 60-80% of candidates
4	First/last character edge matching	Template comparison	High discriminative power
5	Full edge signature matching	Computationally expensive	Resolves ambiguous cases
6	Cross-document Bayesian aggregation	Needs all scores	Marginal cases become clear
11. Project Roadmap
Phase	Duration	People	Goal	Deliverable
1: Foundation	Weeks 1-2	Just you	Proof of concept on first 1,000 files	Statistical report, visual proof
2: Demo	Weeks 3-4	You + early contributors	Interactive demo, compelling writeup	Hosted demo page, GitHub repo
3: PWA Launch	Weeks 4-6	Growing community	50,000 files processed	Working PWA + backend
4: Momentum	Months 2-3	Community	500,000+ files, first findings	Published methodology
5: Completion	Months 3-6	Established community	Full corpus, comprehensive analysis	Complete statistical analysis
